Technical Steering Committee Meeting - 17th Feb 2014
====================================================

Present : Owen Arnold, Stuart Campbell, Martyn Gigg, Peter Peterson, Russell Taylor

Minutes
-------

1. Stuart Campbell was nomitated and elected the chair.
 
2. The initial draft of the remit of the Technical Steering Committee was ratified and has been uploaded into the Mantid document git repo (initially in the Project Management directory).
 
3. We have been asked by the PMB to give an estimate of the amount of staff effort that is required in order to maintain Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 6.  Stuart will speak to John Quigley (SNS Sysadmin Team Lead) and Martyn will speak to Stephen Rankin (ISIS SysAdmin).
 
4. CMS - ISIS are getting a graduate student for 3 months to evaluate potential Content Management Systems.
 
5. Pull Requests - Owen will look at the open pull request from PSI
 
6. There was some discussion on whether there should be an ISIS staff member on this committee.  The consens was that if ISIS wanted one then there should be, Martyn/Owen currently didn't know if ISIS wanted one or who it would be.
 NOTE: We found out after the meeting that Anders was nomitated by ISIS.
 
Agenda for Next Meeting
-----------------------

1. Review RHEL6 report
2. Review any Design Documents
3. Review Tools
4. Investigate 3rd party mailers (as an alternative to using our own mailman)
 
 
