Agenda
======

* Report from PMB meeting
* Representative from ESS.
* Make suggestion of topics the TSC presents at developer meeting and agenda items for TSC meeting days scheduled during: http://www.mantidproject.org/Category:January_2015_Visit (Pete)
* Are you are aware if there exist good documenation for: describe well which documentation needs to updated before fixing a ticket and tested when testing a ticket. If not should this be a maintenance task?

Minutes
=======

* Desire for presentation on MantidPlot replacement and MantidCloud topics for SSC.  
* Need useful use cases on the current problems with IDF
 * [ ] Stuart to email and ask people to contribute use cases. 
* It was agreed for Tobias Richter to join the Technical Steering Committee.
* Updated the [wiki](http://www.mantidproject.org/Category:Workshop2015) - Pete will coordinate the agenda.
  * [ ] Pete/Anders to update pages on coding standard and static analysis.
  * [ ] Owen to present a page on mock and best-practices
  * [ ] Build servers page needs updating
  * [ ] Brief Git/GitHub tutorial
  * [ ] Update useful development tools for 2015
  * [ ] Martyn to look at updating Design Patterns Best Practices
  * [ ] Owen to update How to write a good design document.
  * [ ] Steven Hahn to do the Correct practices for parallelisation
  * [ ] Roman to do a presentation of fitting in general and what is available.
  * [ ] Ander to do a best practises for modifying fitting functions and algorithms.
  * [ ] Martyn to do something on Python, Boost-Python, exposing run object, setting up your IDE, debugging.
  * [ ] Review of workspace types
  * [ ] Overview of MD, SliceViewer, VSI, event filtering, etc.
  * [ ] Workflow Algorithms
* We will get together while Owen and Martyn are here to talk through system tests and how they interact with pull requests.
* [ ] Nick to come up with a timeline for migration of remaining document to rst and present at Dev Meeting.
