Agenda
======
1. Actions from last meeting
2. Owen to discuss [Multi Period Workspace Groups issue and possible design choices](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Design/MultiPeriodGroupWorkspace.md)
3. Owen to raise GUI testing (still unresolved)
3. John Hill's request for [CCfits](http://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/fitsio/CCfits/) to be shipped with Mantid
4. Discuss future of [tcmalloc](https://gist.github.com/martyngigg/39716a22b159e0918e48) - Martyn
5. [Maintenence tasks for next cycle](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/MaintenanceTasks.md) - Pete
5. Assign any outstanding pull requests
