#  Minutes

##  Mantid PMB Meeting 22

**Minutes of: 2021-02-11 UTC 14:00-16:00**

**In Attendance:**
```

* ESS - Jon Taylor (PMB Chair), Andrew Jackson

* ILL -  Paolo Mutti, Gagik Vardanyan

* ISIS - Lamar Moore (co-PM), Toby Perring, Pascal Manuel, Hannah Griffin

* ORNL - Mathieu Doucet, Andrei Savici

* Non-facility - Peter Peterson (co-PM + TSC chair), Stephen Cottrell (User Group Chair), Daniel Murphy (Secretary)
```


##  Recent Project updates

- [Mantid 6.0 has been released](https://docs.mantidproject.org/nightly/release/v6.0.0/index.html), the first release without MantidPlot
- Brief discussion that the TSC should look at what operating systems need to be supported, related to the recent demand for MacOS BigSur 

## Discuss report from the review of the governance

Andrei mentioned that one of the proposed suggestions from the review, was that we couldn't handle a major refactor, related to how it would be resourced.
Hannah mentioned the review points about managing major refactors and change the licensing could be tackled by the TSC.

The points relating to the code of conduct can be sorted by the steering committee.

Jon and Toby mentioned a review suggestion that in resolving conflicts where there is not consensus, there was the recommendation that having a project coordinator (not quite a PM) to resolve these conflicts / have the final say, would be useful! Considering this suggestion is important before moving officially to the new governance.

*Below are a few points on resolving project conflicts.*

- Lamar, Mathieu and others expressed that hopefully conflicts are very unlikely, as the working groups aide collaboration/communication and they also empowers developers. Many agreed that conflicts are unlikely, but we need a governance process to deal with them.

- Jon mentioned that the "Project Coordinator" responsibility could be shared between the chairs of the Technical and Scientific Working groups. These responsibilities for coordination and administration can then rotate between different facilities.

- Pete asked, is there a process for resolving a tie break between the two chairs? Andrei mentioned that facility management/directors could make the decisions in the case of major conflicts. This would have added incentive to come to agreement. The most professional option is to have the facility directors meet to resolve.

- There was some discussion if a tie breaker/ conflict resolution facilitator could be from outside the project. It was generally agreed that finding a neutral person or group with enough knowledge of the project is likely to be impossible. Jon and Andrew proposed that there could be a review process in the event of conflicts. This may have the same issues that an external facilitator would around bias and project knowledge.
- The most interesting suggestion, by Pete, was that the tiebreaker be the largest GitHub contributor who is not on the steering committee (tech or sci working group). Especially if this were a graduate developer, there would be added incentive for not having disagreements.

#########

Jon pointed out that the governance document should recognise the decent amount of administration involved in coordinating the governance. Pete mentioned defining the expected admin would be good. Hannah thought that the 
responsibility could be as little as making sure the meetings happen! Other tasks can be delegated if possible. Governance associated admin could be organised by the two steering committees.

Jon said that the lead of the Technical working group could also be the project coordinator.

#########

Pete asked when we intend to make the switch to the new governance? Jon outlined that when the updates to the review documents are agreed approved by the reviewers, we can forward the proposal to the facility directors. 
Finally, there can be a final PMB meeting where the group is disbanded and the new steering committee is formed.

It was decided that Jon and Pete shall be the interim Chairs of the Scientific and Technical working groups. We need a list of the people who should be on the scientific committee. Also, we need to reach out to facilities that may wish to engage with the new governance model, including ANSTO, PSI, NIST, FRM2, CSNS.

- Finally, it was discussed that having a review of the success of the new governance model in about 12 months should happen. Jon said that the review clause in the governance document will rely on the professionalism of the steering 
  committees to set-up a proper review. Hannah expressed her interest in engaging with that process, keen to ensure the new steering committee are not "marking their own homework" although an full external review is not required.

## Actions

- Lamar will update governance document that we currently lack a process for resolving conflicts, but we are working towards having one (external conflict resolver vs facility directors)
- Lamar to add a review clause to the governance document.

- **All 4 facilities engaged with the PMB have a month deadline ~11th March for steering committee members to be proposed.**

- Members should start to talk to their management / facilities directors about the change in governance.

- Lamar, Martyn and Pete are to engage with CSNS.
- Pete will contact NIST, ANSTO
- Jon will contact PSI, FRM2

- Daniel and Jon to organise the joint meeting of both the outgoing PMB and incoming steering committee around the end of March (First agenda item on the new steering committee should be to organise a user meeting).

- We need to mention this in the forum and internal facility news.
