#  Minutes

##  Mantid PMB Meeting 17


**Minutes of: 2020-08-24 UTC12:00-14:00**

**In Attendance:**
```
* CSNS - Junrong Zhang

* ESS - Andrew Jackson, Jon Taylor (PMB Chair)

* ILL - Miguel Gonzalez, Paolo Mutti, Gagik Vardanyan

* ISIS - Lamar Moore, Toby Perring, Hannah Griffin

* ORNL - Mathieu Doucet, Andrei Savici

* Non-facility - Nick Draper (PM), Peter Peterson (TSC chair), Stephen Cottrell (User Group Chair), Stephen Smith (Secretary)
```
##  Agenda

-   Go through the governance proposals from each facility.
-   Finalise working group membership and plan first meeting.

##  1. Governance proposals
Prior to the meeting each facility sent round a governance proposal document. The majority of the meeting focused on the governance proposal and the move towards modularising Mantid, allowing it to become more agile.
- Hannah Griffin (ISIS) highlighted the main theme of the ISIS proposal is to create a Mantid ecosystem, which would create a collection of projects, allowing facilities to work on projects most relevant to them. Key to this is to define what makes something "Mantid".
-  Paolo Mutti (ILL) raised concerns about the resourcing required to create a Mantid ecosystem. With Mantid now becoming mission critical at the ILL, the pressing issue is to ensure that any governance of Mantid can meet the requirements of the scientists.
- Junrong Zhang (CSNS) highlighted that currently the size of Mantid prevents scientists from being able to actively contribute to the project. The move towards a Mantid ecosystem, with a smaller core/kernel, would make it easier for scientists to contribute towards the project.
- Andrew Jackson (ESS) emphasised that the ecosystem model is not free and would require money and time to manage. Also, based on his experiences with SAS view, quality assurance can be difficult and to ensure stability in the Mantid core a set of trusted developers would need to be identified.
- Nick Draper (PM) raised the point that to alleviate stability concerns going forward, we need a commitment from each facility to continue supporting the existing framework.

Based on the discussions, Jon Taylor (PMB Chair) suggested that we should not form a small working group to discuss the governance. Instead, a master governance proposal, combining the ideas from each facility, should be discussed amongst the whole PMB.

##  2. Working group membership
 - Hannah Griffin was nominated to create the master governance proposal. 
 - The proposal will be a Markdown document on GitHub, allowing each facility to contribute to the master document.
 -  Rather than forming a small working group to discuss the proposal, this would be discussed with everyone in the PMB at the next meeting. 


##  3. Miscellaneous
- As it was Nick Draper's final meeting a final thanks was given to him for all his hard work over the years.

##  Actions
- [ ] Hannah Griffin will create a markdown document by the 31st August. 
- [ ] Each facility may contribute to the master governance proposal.
- [ ] The new governance proposal must be compared to the existing governance proposal, highlighting and assessing the risks of any differences.
- [ ] Two days before the next meeting the collective governance proposal must be finalised.
 
##  Next Agenda (Friday 18 September UTC 12:00-14:00):
-  Discuss the master governance proposal.
