#  Minutes

##  Mantid PMB Meeting 21

**Minutes of: 2020-11-09 UTC 12:00-14:00**

**In Attendance:**
```
* CSNS - (absent)

* ESS - Jon Taylor (PMB Chair), Andrew Jackson

* ILL -  Paolo Mutti, Gagik Vardanyan

* ISIS - Lamar Moore (co-PM), Toby Perring, Pascal Manuel

* ORNL - Mathieu Doucet

* Non-facility - Peter Peterson (co-PM + TSC chair), Stephen Cottrell (User Group Chair), Daniel Murphy (Secretary)
```
##  Discuss Lamar's document

Lamar gave an overview of his document proposing the basic descriptions of the governance committees. International governance is overseen by an overall Steering committee, which includes a scientific working group and technical working group, which own different roadmaps.

Pas said that specifying how the different groups interact, including the user meeting, would be useful. The inclusion of the directors (through the ISIS Management Committee IMC) isn't overly well stated. The different facilities might have a different internal structures, but they can then all interact with the international groups.

Lamar and Jon agreed that it is important to define: how the TSC and Scientific SC work together; how people make contributions to this open source project; how the different groups are comprised and how to resolve conflicts.

Pas added release management to Lamar's document.

### User Community Engagement

Jon : How does stakeholder engagement work with the user community? The user committee was replaced by the user meeting, should the committee be reinstated?

Steve (and Pas): The user meeting doesn't really capture most end users, most are just instrument scientists. There have been some genuine users, including those that were invited to give talks. It is very difficult to get direct engagement with proper users, although their ideas and opinions will be relayed by the attending instrument scientists. These views being reported in the scientific working group and the local steering committees is the right way. 

It was noted that both the scientific and technical groups will contribute to user meetings and report on their roadmaps.

### Steering Committee meetings

For reference, the TSC meets roughly once a month.

It was mentioned that steering committee meetings could be a **reporting session, once every release** (~ every 3 months).
Lamar proposed a release *period* rather than a specific release date. This would help to elevating the status and stability of the nightly. 
Jon: Can we capture the way of releasing in this document? How do people contribute code and how do they get the software. Define what release means.
Releases are currently ~ quarterly. Steering committee meeting could be useful to recognise if the future 6 months of planned work is possible and has it changed from last quarter.

Pete urged that this is a **live document that we update and improve continually.**

Steering committee meetings should be quarterly, if this can be coordinated with the releases then it's a great time to learn. Does it really need to be documented that these meetings occur around the release period, as this is likely to happen naturally. It was agreed that meeting should be *at least a quarterly basis, ideally after a release.*

### Roadmaps

- What is the scientific roadmap and what is the technical roadmap? What should they contain?

Pete mentioned that in his experience having scientific and technical people in the same group allows scientists to take the lead on far off / future goals and technical people for the imminent tasks.

Andrew asked, how do the working groups and roadmaps sort out shared critical work?
Lamar pointed out that roadmaps help to identify shared work, which can be scheduled as a project.
Andrew mentioned that the roadmaps will help us work out if we're meeting our projections. Amendments to facility roadmaps may be of concern to the steering committee.
What minimum information should be in the sci and technical roadmaps.

*The TSC should meet and work out a technical roadmaps and the same from a scientific working group headed by Steve.*

The scientific roadmaps are really just the individual facilities roadmaps. The international roadmap only has the added 
benefit of determining where similar projects and timelines can be found across different facilities. 

### What are the roles in scientific working group?

How are the chairs chosen for the different groups? TSC chair is voted from the members.
TSC governance: https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/TSC-Terms.md 

A joint idea between Jon and Pete was that the divide between partners vs contributors should maybe change.
The Scientific WG chair needs to talk to contributors to get their individual roadmaps.
Each contributing facility should nominate someone for the Scientific WG, from: ISIS, ILL, SNS, CSNS, ESS, *Munich, ANSTO and PSI.* 
It is a communication point, to look for commonalities in the roadmaps. 
"Contributor" facilities being involved is good way to inform them about the direction of travel, to allow them to plan, rather than them having an disproportionate amount of power. 

Each contributor should also have someone on the TSC. This person could be on both the TSC and the Scientific working group. 
**It was mentioned that when either the TSC or Sci workong group meets, there should be some representation from the other group.**

### Preparing for advisory board

Each facility needs a member from PMB to decide on the contents of the scientific roadmaps.
If a roadmap was a document with subheadings, the thing to figure out next week is, what are the subheadings.

For reference, Andrew shared the Sasview roadmap: https://github.com/SasView/documents/blob/master/Roadmap/SasView%20Roadmap%202019-04-02.md

### Communicate to Stakeholders

Pete asked how do we communicate this to the community of stakeholders? It would be good to give them reassurance that not much will change for stakeholders, especially that each facility will have the control of their own work.

There should be a Mantid Forum post that we are looking at changing the governance.

##  Actions

- Pete and Lamar to create the subheadings for a technical roadmap (with help from TSC).
- Steve and Toby and others to decide upon the subheadings for a scientific roadmap. Maybe some prioritisation and technical feasibility. For far off goals, leave out details.
- Jon and Pete to create forum post that the governance is changing. 
