Minutes
-------

* [Geometry](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Design/Instrument-2.0/requirements-v2.md)
* Report from the PMB
* The mantid project needs to improve its public relations (Draper/Peterson)
* Pull requests [add checklist](http://www.mantidproject.org/Git_Workflow#Pull_Requests) - MaryPoppins(?) (Gigg)
* We'll try gatekeepers for pull requests after the release is done. TSC will discus this again in one month.Testers will tag tickets with `:shipit:` :shipit:. A list of gatekeepers will be a github group. (Campbell)
* Add some code complexity tools to the builds. Leal will come up with a list of suggestions. Leal will create a code quality guidelines document. (Leal)
* Collected requirements for a new [Units design](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Design/Units.md) (Savici)
* Heybrock presented a talk on technical debt
