Agenda
======

* [GroupWorkspaces overview](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/MantidReviewMeeting/topics/WorkspaceGroup.md) (Lamar and Anton)
* Maintenance Tasks (Pete, Martyn or Nick)
* SpectrumInfo & DetectorInfo rollout  - [InstrumentAccessLayers](http://docs.mantidproject.org/nightly/concepts/InstrumentAccessLayers.html) & [#17743](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/issues/17743) (Ian)
* HistogramData rollout still ongoing - [Umbrella Issue](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/issues/17641) (Lamar)


Questions
=========

* Add your questions here
