Agenda
======

Pinned Topics
-------------
* Review any outstanding external pull request or issues? (Owen)
* Any updates to [tracking design table](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/TSC-TrackingDesignProposals.md)?

New Items
---------
* Summary of PMB 23rd Nov (Anders)
* Remaining content for the [TSC and developer meetings](http://www.mantidproject.org/Category:Workshop2016) 
* [Guidelines and standards from sine2020](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/GuidelinesAndStandards.md) (Anders)
* Better (cloud?) cross platform debugging option - to e.g. alliviate the pain of fixing/investigating cross platform dependent systemtest failures (Anders)
* Start made on Geometry requrements [here](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/Instrument-Geometry/Design/Instrument-2.0/requirements-v2.md) (Owen)
* Standardisation & SSC. Loss of namespace, too much code, too many facilities, what can the TSC do to help? (Owen)




