## Meeting notes - 2016/06/07

Participants: Verena Reimund, Antti Soininen, Eric Pellegrini, Miguel A. Gonzalez

### IN4 (Antti):

* Initial goals for the week were:
  * Finish simple comparison of S(Q,w) between Lamp and Mantid
  * Adding more complexity to the reduction script in Mantid: normalization to monitor, background subtraction,
    vanadium normalization, etc.

* But on doing this work a wrong definition concerning the orientation of the detectors in the IDF was found.
This explains why the three different Mantid algorithms to convert to S(Q,w) (in particular the NormalizedPolygon
one) produced so different results.

* Replacing the detector tubes by a point detector, Antti already verified that the conversion to S(Q,w)
agrees reasonably well with Lamp.

* He has also progressed in correcting the IDF.

* Work for next week:
  * Finish the creation of a correct IDF.
  * Compare also the inelastic part of the spectra
  * Try a more complex reduction script

### IN16 (Verena):

* Initial goals for the week were:
  * Compare IN16B read using Lamp/Mantid with minimal manipulation and understand the different
    automatic/explicit steps used in each ‘loader’.
  * Perform more complete data reduction: normalization to monitor, background subtraction,
    vanadium normalization, etc.

* Comparison of the data before doing any ‘mirroring’ is OK (data simply normalized by monitor on reading
and taking left or right sides). Intensities are not the same (but this is likely due to a constant factor
used in the Mantid normalization, e.g. normalizing to 1000 counts in monitor), but when using Mantid
algorithm NormaliseToUnity both sets seem to agree within numerical error.

* The right side in Mantid is shifted compared to Lamp. This is due to the fact that in Mantid the first
16 bins (in this case) are zero. To note that Mantid uses only the channels between the two maxima of the
monitor and discards the first and last bins. Need to discuss with Tilo if this is OK and if both maxima
can be assigned to the max and min energy transfer.

* When several numors are read together (MergeRuns) and ‘mirrored’ to produce a single spectrum, Lamp and
Mantid do not agree. In particular, comparing different temperatures, their relative intensities in Lamp
and Mantid do not show the same trends. This cannot be right and is likely related to the way the ‘unmirror’
option is implemented in Mantid and Lamp.

* Work for next week:
  * Write down the different steps done by Mantid when reading IN16B data (remove bins outside max. of monitor,
    normalize to monitor, combining sides, etc.) and how they are applied and discuss with Tilo if/how they
    should be changed.
  * Complete the comparison between Mantid and Lamp.
  * Read a series of elastic scans and compare Mantid vs Lamp.
