## ToF Requirements Discussion

## Meeting notes - 2016/11/08

Participants: Ian Bush, Verena Reimund, Miguel Gonzalez, Bjorn Fak, Gagik Vardanyan 

### ToF Spectroscopy:

##### Initial plans for the sprint:

* Ian:
 * ToF - EPP position when loading/merging
   * This should probably be fixed when merging, or loaded from file

* Antti:
 * `DGSReductionILL` to BF for testing
   * IN4 computer should be upgraded to IN4 before cycle starts on 4th November
 * Fix minor issues in `CalculateFlatBackground`
 * `DetectorEfficiencyCorUser` improvements
 * More realistic `ComputeCalibrationCoefVan`

#### Antti:
 * Pull requests for auto rebinning - `BinWitdhAtX` and `MedianBinWidth`
 * Pull request open for `GetEiMonDet`
 * Fix for `CalculateFlatBackground`
 * `DGSReductionILL` is new name for workflow algorithm
  * Handle temporary workspaces
  * Improve detector diagnostics
 * PR review - `AppendSpectra`
 * IN4 updates to IDF based on different detector tubes
  * PR to be opened
 * TOF GUI
  * Use `DataProcessor*` frameworking in Mantid
  * Stick to PyQt for future support

Work for next sprint:
 * Concentrate on getting `DirectILLReduction` for use by BF
  * PR for IN4
  * Demo scripts
  * Unit testing - question about how to keep it while keeping it script like?

#### TOF Requirements:

See [presentation](2016-11-07-TOF-Requirements.pdf). These notes on the discussion refer ot the numbering used there.

* (1) - For IN5 do we need to do fit EPP for each pixel?
* (4) - `NormaliseToMonitor` - BF mentioned that it needs to fit the monitor peak with some width. AS said this has been done, flat background still needs subtracting from this.
* (5) - Automatic masking currently in place for when no EPP can be fitted, when there are zero counts and when the background is too high.
* (6) - Cadmium not required for now - can see if it is requested.
* (7) - Frame overlap can be left out for now too.
* (10) - Absorption corrections - some discussion about automatically working these out for sample from the NeXus file. MG suggested this is not always reliable, so if this is done the chemical formula of the sample (for example) must be made obvious to the user.
* (14) - Absolute normalisation commonly used at ISIS. Might be possible to use `DgsAbsoluteUnitsReduction`.
* (17) - BF mentioned that this is required for visualisation of data. Look at what is done for powder diffraction for Debye-Scherrer cone in PSD tubes.
* (21) - Need to investigate current slicing in Mantid.

