## Meeting notes - 2017/11/07 - Reflectometry meeting

Participants: Verena Reimund, Antti Soininen, Gagik Vardanyan, Miguel Gonzalez, Paolo Mutti, Franck Cecillon, Thomas Saerbeck, Remi Perenon

### Antti: Presentation of reduction workflow 

See [slides](2017-11-07-Reflectometry.pdf) for more details.

Initial goals:
 * Test workflow for simplest COSMOS reduction:
   1. Algorithm to subtract background (CalculatePolynomialBackground) fixed.
   1. Selection of wavelength range added 
   1. Agreement with Cosmos within numerical precision for the 'theta' option (scattering angle given directly by the user)
   1. Need to check origin of differences at larger Q for 'dan'option
   1. Decided to discard points with zero counts (Infinity in log R)
 * Investigate existing `PolarizationCorrection` algorithm
   1. Reading of 'IDL'-like file with input ranges and values and generation of correction factors for each wavelength almost ready.
   1. Discussed the possibility of including the input values in the NeXus file. A drawback is that those values are not known initially, so they have to be calculated and often refined once the first measurements have already been done. This implies that the NeXus files will have to be modified to correct these values. As a new mechanism to correct NeXus files is now being put in place by the SCI, it was agreed to proceed with this. 
   1. However on a later mail (13/11/2017), Thomas Saerbeck asked that the default option in Mantid should be to read the input files from a separate file provided by the user. Only if this file is not given, then the values stored in the NeXus file would be used to compute the polarization correction factors.
 * Foreground coherent summation - extract code from ReflectometryReductionOne
   * To do
 * Add water reference to calculate detector efficiency to workflow
   * To do

Work for next sprint:
 * Progress with implementation of polarization corrections
 * Progress with foreground summation in coherent case 
 * Have peak search and detector rotation as separate algorithms
 * Check origin of discrepancies between Mantid and Cosmos at large Q for 'dan' option and check behaviour for 'san' option.
 * Add water reference to workflow
 

### Verena: Presentation of work on gravity corrections 

See [slides](2017-11-07-GravityCorrection.pdf) for more details.

Initial goals:
 * Complete design document for gravity corrections
   1. Gravity taken into account by creating a virtual detector, so the output workspace has a modified TOF axis and 'redistributed' counts (and hence, modified scattering angles).
   1. The virtual instrument definition is cloned from the input workspace.
   1. Testing and documentation in progress.

Work for next sprint:
 * Check with real data from ISIS and/or ILL --> Figaro.
 * Complete Figaro loader. As updated NeXus files containing the requested new fields will not be available until next cycle, the loader will need to calculate them from existing fields.
 * Gravity corrections (design doc completed by VR)
 * Figaro loader ...
