## Planning for 2017 and Catchup

## Meeting notes - 2017/01/24

Participants: Antti Soininen, Ian Bush, Verena Reimund, Gagik Vardanyan, Miguel Gonzalez, Eric Pellegrini

### Miguel - Planning for 2017

See the [presentation](2017-01-23-Plans.pdf) for full details.

Notes:
 * Aim to use Mantid on 9 - 10 instruments by the end of the year - TOF (IN4, IN5, IN6), BS (IN16B), REF(D17, Figaro), DIF (D20, D1B+D2B+D4?)
 * Cycles for 2018 and 2019 expected to include a long shutdown period, so might be less chance for testing Mantid on real data
 * Agreed that the plan for weekly meetings and aims for the year seem sensible

### Ian - Scanning Instruments

See the [presentation](2017-01-23-ScanningInstruments.pdf) for full details.

Notes:
 * Question about requirement for moving components that are not detectors - MG does not think this is required for ILL in the short term, would be for TAS

Work for next sprint:
 * SpectrumInfo/DetectorInfo rollout - keep track of progress and PR reviews
 * Investigate use of `Eigen` library
 * Meeting with Simon and Owen next week - should make plans for next few weeks after this

### Gagik - Backscattering

See the [presentation](2017-01-23-Backscattering.pdf) for full details.

Work for next sprint:
 * Finalize	and	ship the PR	by Louise
 * Implement the automatic EFixed mode in MonteCarloAbsorption by relaxing unit check
 * Add the option in FlatPlatePaalmanPings and CylinderPaalmanPings for EFixed
 * Make adjustments in the GUI, as some unit conversions happen there

### Verena - Reflectometry

See the [presentation](2017-01-23-Reflectometry.pdf) for full details.

Notes:
 * Comparisons made between COSMOS (LAMP) and Mantid `ReflectometryReductionOne` algorithms
 * Factor of 2 problem in x-axis (q)
 * Errors still need to be compared on a linear scale
 * Some extra algorithms like `CorrectTOFAxis` required in script

Work for next sprint:
 * Continue comparison and understand differences between COSMOS and `ReflectometryReductionOne` algorithm

### Antti - ToF

See the [presentation](2017-01-23-TOF.pdf) for full details.

Work for next sprint:
 * Fix most urgent issues in DirectILLReduction, open a pull request.
 * Start serious work on GUI.
 * Implement missing functionality.

