## Planning for 2017 and Catchup

## Meeting notes - 2017/01/24

Participants: Antti Soininen, Ian Bush, Verena Reimund, Gagik Vardanyan, Miguel Gonzalez, Bjorn Fak, Tilo Seydel

### Gagik - Backscattering

See the [presentation](2017-01-30-Backscattering.pdf) for full details.

Initial goals for the sprint were:
 * Finalize and ship the PR by Louise
 * Implement the automatic EFixed mode in MonteCarloAbsorption by relaxing unit check
 * Add the option in FlatPlatePaalmanPings and CylinderPaalmanPings for EFixed
 * Make adjustments in the GUI, as some unit conversions happen there

Tilo's experience from testing:
 * Generally going well, data reading and exporting works well for QENS, analysis parts not tested yet.
 * Bug this morning where the machine crashed when saving with Mantid - most likely network issues?
 * Issue with number of entries in a workspace - 1024 (point data) vs 1025 (histogram data). GV pointed out that you can use `ConvertToPointData` to deal with this.

Progress:
* 3.9 release needs to be built from branch, if not available from downloads (seems there is one 14.04 nightly build available, but we need to build future ones ourselves).
* New reduction is merged, will be released in v3.9 (release date mid-February).
* GV to update the setup on the IN16B PC with a nightly build.
* Minor comments addressed from reviewers.
* Outstanding issue on absorption and PP corrections for FWS:
 * They requre wavelength as the x-axis unit
 * A new option `UseWavelengthFrom = [ws, Efixed]` will be added so the unit requirement can be relaxed.
 * Affects: `MonteCarloAbsorption`, `IndirectFlatePlateAbsorption`, `IndirectCylinderAbsorption`, `FlatPlatePaalmanPings`, `CylinderPlatePaalmanPings`, `ApplyPaalmanPingsCorrections`, GUI

Work for next sprint:
 * Adding new option to correction routines
 * GV to work with TS on the instrument to see how Mantid is working in practice
 * Fix any bugs from Mantid testing




