## Meeting notes - 2017/09/28 - Reflectometry Meeting

Participants: Verena Reimund, Antti Soininen, Gagik Vardanyan, Miguel Gonzalez, Paolo Mutti, Franck Cecillon, Thomas Saerbeck

### Antti - Reduction Workflow Update

See the [presentation](2017-09-28-Reflectometry.pdf) for more details.

Initial goals were:
 * Look into differences with reduction
 * Figaro data loading
 * Talk to ISIS instrument scientists about pre-loading steps done (TS has a list of contacts)
 * TS away after 9th March, VR, TS and FS should meet before then

* D17 loader ready and validated by comparing with Lamp.
* To do for loader:
  * Complete checking on log scale
  * Update Figaro NeXuS with requested new fields (e.g. correct sample to detector distance)
  * Future NeXuS files will contain calibrated and raw data. Loader should use by default the calibrated data, but with an option to load the raw data instead.
  * For raw data, a calibration procedure using a water run is needed.
  * When merging several runs, metadata should be merged properly and a user warning raised whenever values expected to be equal differ by more than a given tolerance. This is already done in `ReflectometryILLReduction`, but not yet in `ReflectometryILLPreprocess`.
  * Hardware tolerances should be written in NeXuS files.
* Two workflows created: `ReflectometryILLPreprocess` loads and merges the data (direct and reflected beams) and performs the common corrections. `ReflectometryILLReduction` computes the (1D) specular reflectivity.
* `ReflectometryILLPreprocess` To do:
  * Water calibration
  * Instrument background not needed (for 1D reflectometry), as background is determined directly from the RB run
  * Coherent method
* `ReflectometryILLReduction` To do:
  * Add gravity corrections
  * Add polarization corrections. Current formulas used at ISIS OK, but need to implement also Thomas's formulas used in Cosmos.
* Other points discussed:
  * Detector masking. Not urgently needed for 1D data, but essential for 2D.
  * Need to be able both to mask detector zones and to select a ROI.
  * Scripts and documentation. Clear documentation about Mantid algorithms used in reduction workflow. Robust tests to ensure that changes to those algorithms do not affect the output given by the data treatment scripts. 

Work for next sprint:
 * Test workflow for simplest COSMOS reduction
 * Gravity corrections (design doc completed by VR)
 * Investigate existing `PolarizationCorrection` algorithm
 * Foreground incoherent summation - extract code from `ReflectometryReductionOne`
 * Water reference?
