## Meeting notes - 2018/02/15 - Reflectometry meeting

Participants: Verena Reimund, Antti Soininen, Gagik Vardanyan, Miguel Gonzalez, Paolo Mutti, Thomas Saerbeck, Philipp Gutfreund, Armando Maestro

### Antti: Reduction workflow

See [slides](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/ILL/Weekly_Meetings/2018-02-15-Reflectometry.pdf) for more details.

Initial goals:

- Finish Figaro loader: Detectors should face sample even when there is a sample offset.
- Implement polarization corrections

Progress:

- Figaro Loader completed
- Polarization corrections included
  - Successful comparison with Cosmos

**Work for next sprint:**

- Calculation of Q resolution. Include dQ in the output files.

- Find a solution for the asymmetric foreground. The problem is that the 2-theta value used in the computation of Q is calculated as the average of the foreground pixels. When using an asymmetric foreground this results in a 2-theta that does not correspond to the peak position.  Possibilities:

  - Calculated 2-theta as the weighted (by number of counts) average of the foreground pixels.
  - Use the user input (equivalent to the Theta option in Cosmos) or 'san' value and not the pixel angles. TS also noted that the accuracy in the sample angle is better than in the detector. 

- Add coherent method to workflow (Sum in Q at ISIS)

  ​

### Verena: Gravity Corrections

See [slides](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/ILL/Weekly_Meetings/2018-02-15-GravityCorrections.pdf) for more details.

Initial goals:

- Test gravity correction algorithm.

Progress:

- Algorithm completed. Provides a virtual instrument definition with sample at origin and gravity-corrected neutron flight paths.
- Correction takes about 4-5 seconds (not optimized yet)
  - This can be a problem when the user will treat 1000s of files. Needs to be 10-100 times faster.
- Problem: A white stripe appears in the corrected data.
  - A possible reason is that even for large wavelengths (20-30 angstrom) the correction to the angle is rather small (of the order of 1 pixel at most). Can happen that the correction is less than 0.5 pixels (and then nothing is moved up) for spectra < 128 and more than 0.5 pixels (and then bins are moved up by 1 pixel) above?
  - If this is the case, the solution would be to distribute the counts of each original bin between 4 bins (in 2-theta and wavelength), but this will make the algorithm even more complex and time consuming.
  - For the incoherent case, as in any case we sum directly over several pixels, the best solution seems to forget about the correction in 2-theta and just apply the corrections to wavelength due to gravity.
  - An alternative is to compute Q-corrected values for each bin. They could be used when binning in Q the 1D-reflectivity curves, but cannot be used for plotting (no rectangular map).

**Work for next sprint**:

- Alternative gravity correction algorithm keeping original data and just recalculating the wavelength axis.