Agenda
=========

* Plans for indexing changes (spectrum numbers, detector IDs, workspace indices, ...) (Simon, 5-10 minutes)
* MSlice development review (Eltayeb)
* [Added geometry handling for ConvertAxisByFormula] (https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/pull/16824) (Nick/Anton)
* Add you links/material here

Questions
=========

* Add your questions here

